17 CFR § 229.10 - (Item 10) General. | Electronic Code of Federal Regulations (e-CFR) | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute
Please help us improve our site!
×
17 CFR § 229.10 - (Item 10) General.
§ 229.10 (Item 10) General.
(a) Application of Regulation S-K. This part (together with the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. 77a et seq., as amended (Securities Act), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq., as amended (Exchange Act) (parts 230 and 240 of this chapter), the Interpretative Releases under these Acts (parts 231 and 241 of this chapter) and the forms under these Acts (parts 239 and 249 of this chapter)) states the requirements applicable to the content of the non-financial statement portions of:
(1) Registration statements under the Securities Act (part 239 of this chapter) to the extent provided in the forms to be used for registration under such Act; and
(2) Registration statements under section 12 (subpart C of part 249 of this chapter), annual or other reports under sections 13 and 15(d) (subparts D and E of part 249 of this chapter), going-private transaction statements under section 13 (part 240 of this chapter), tender offer statements under sections 13 and 14 (part 240 of this chapter), annual reports to security holders and proxy and information statements under section 14 (part 240 of this chapter), and any other documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act, to the extent provided in the forms and rules under that Act.
(b) Commission policy on projections. The Commission encourages the use in documents specified in §§ 230.175 (Rule 175 under the Securities Act) and 240.3b-6 (Rule 3b-6 under the Exchange Act) of this chapter of management's projections of future economic performance that have a reasonable basis and are presented in an appropriate format. The guidelines set forth in this paragraph (b) represent the Commission's views on important factors to be considered in formulating and disclosing such projections. These guidelines also apply to projections of future economic performance of persons other than the registrant, such as the target company in a business combination transaction, that are included in the registrant's Commission filings.
(1) Basis for projections. The Commission believes that management must have the option to present in Commission filings its good faith assessment of a registrant's future performance. Management, however, must have a reasonable basis for such an assessment. Although a history of operations or experience in projecting may be among the factors providing a basis for management's assessment, the Commission does not believe that a registrant always must have had such a history or experience in order to formulate projections with a reasonable basis. An outside review of management's projections may furnish additional support for having a reasonable basis for a projection. If management decides to include a report of such a review in a Commission filing, there also should be disclosure of the qualifications of the reviewer, the extent of the review, the relationship between the reviewer and the registrant, and other material factors concerning the process by which any outside review was sought or obtained. Moreover, in the case of a registration statement under the Securities Act, the reviewer would be deemed an expert and an appropriate consent must be filed with the registration statement.
(2) Format for projections.
(i) In determining the appropriate format for projections included in Commission filings, consideration must be given to, among other things, the financial items to be projected, the period to be covered, and the manner of presentation to be used. Although traditionally projections have been given for three financial items generally considered to be of primary importance to investors (revenues, net income (loss), and earnings (loss) per share), projection information need not necessarily be limited to these three items. However, management should take care to assure that the choice of items projected is not susceptible of misleading inferences through selective projection of only favorable items. Revenues, net income (loss), and earnings (loss) per share usually are presented together in order to avoid any misleading inferences that may arise when the individual items reflect contradictory trends. There may be instances, however, when it is appropriate to present earnings (loss) from continuing operations in addition to or in lieu of net income (loss). It generally would be misleading to present sales or revenue projections without one of the foregoing measures of income (loss). The period that appropriately may be covered by a projection depends to a large extent on the particular circumstances of the company involved. For certain companies in certain industries, a projection covering a two- or three-year period may be entirely reasonable. Other companies may not have a reasonable basis for projections beyond the current year. Accordingly, management should select the period most appropriate in the circumstances. In addition, management, in making a projection, should disclose what, in its opinion, is the most probable specific amount or the most reasonable range for each financial item projected based on the selected assumptions. Ranges, however, should not be so wide as to make the disclosures meaningless. Moreover, several projections based on varying assumptions may be judged by management to be more meaningful than a single number or range and would be permitted.
(ii) The presentation of projected measures that are not based on historical financial results or operational history should be clearly distinguished from projected measures that are based on historical financial results or operational history.
(iii) It generally would be misleading to present projections that are based on historical financial results or operational history without presenting such historical financial results or operational history with equal or greater prominence.
(iv) The presentation of projections that include non-GAAP financial measures should include a clear definition or explanation of those financial measures, a description of the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) financial measure to which it is most directly comparable, and an explanation why the non-GAAP measure was selected instead of a GAAP measure.
(c) Commission policy on security ratings. In view of the importance of security ratings (ratings) to investors and the marketplace, the Commission permits registrants to disclose, on a voluntary basis, ratings assigned by rating organizations to classes of debt securities, convertible debt securities and preferred stock in registration statements and periodic reports. Set forth herein are the Commission's views on important matters to be considered in disclosing security ratings.
(1) Securities Act filings.
(i) If a registrant includes in a registration statement filed under the Securities Act any rating(s) assigned to a class of securities, it should consider including: (A) Any other rating intended for public dissemination assigned to such class by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization (NRSRO) (additional NRSRO rating) that is available on the date of the initial filing of the document and that is materially different from any rating disclosed; and (B) the name of each rating organization whose rating is disclosed; each such rating organization's definition or description of the category in which it rated the class of securities; the relative rank of each rating within the assigning rating organization's overall classification system; and a statement informing investors that a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, that it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The registrant also should include the written consent of any rating organization that is not a NRSRO whose rating is included. With respect to the written consent of any NRSRO whose rating is included, see Rule 436(g) under the Securities Act (§ 230.436(g) of this chapter).
(ii) If a change in a rating already included is available subsequent to the filing of the registration statement, but prior to its effectiveness, the registrant should consider including such rating change in the final prospectus. If the rating change is material or if a materially different rating from any disclosed becomes available during this period, the registrant should consider amending the registration statement to include the rating change or additional rating and recirculating the preliminary prospectus.
(iii) If a materially different additional NRSRO rating or a material change in a rating already included becomes available during any period in which offers or sales are being made, the registrant should consider disclosing such additional rating or rating change by means of post-effective amendment or sticker to the prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act (§ 230.424(b) of this chapter), unless, in the case of a registration statement on Form S-3 (§ 239.13 of this chapter), it has been disclosed in a document incorporated by reference into the registration statement subsequent to its effectiveness and prior to the termination of the offering.
(2) Exchange Act filings.
(i) If a registrant includes in a registration statement or periodic report filed under the Exchange Act any rating(s) assigned to a class of securities, it should consider including the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.
(ii) If there is a material change in the rating(s) assigned by any NRSRO(s) to any outstanding class(es) of securities of a registrant subject to the reporting requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the registrant should consider filing a report on Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter) or other appropriate report under the Exchange Act disclosing such rating change.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) Use of non-GAAP financial measures in Commission filings.
(1) Whenever one or more non-GAAP financial measures are included in a filing with the Commission:
(i) The registrant must include the following in the filing:
(A) A presentation, with equal or greater prominence, of the most directly comparable financial measure or measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP);
(B) A reconciliation (by schedule or other clearly understandable method), which shall be quantitative for historical non-GAAP measures presented, and quantitative, to the extent available without unreasonable efforts, for forward-looking information, of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measure disclosed or released with the most directly comparable financial measure or measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP identified in paragraph (e)(1)(i)(A) of this section;
(C) A statement disclosing the reasons why the registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the registrant's financial condition and results of operations; and
(D) To the extent material, a statement disclosing the additional purposes, if any, for which the registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measure that are not disclosed pursuant to paragraph (e)(1)(i)(C) of this section; and
(ii) A registrant must not:
(A) Exclude charges or liabilities that required, or will require, cash settlement, or would have required cash settlement absent an ability to settle in another manner, from non-GAAP liquidity measures, other than the measures earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA);
(B) Adjust a non-GAAP performance measure to eliminate or smooth items identified as non-recurring, infrequent or unusual, when the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably likely to recur within two years or there was a similar charge or gain within the prior two years;
(C) Present non-GAAP financial measures on the face of the registrant's financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP or in the accompanying notes;
(D) Present non-GAAP financial measures on the face of any pro forma financial information required to be disclosed by Article 11 of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210.11-01 through 210.11-03); or
(E) Use titles or descriptions of non-GAAP financial measures that are the same as, or confusingly similar to, titles or descriptions used for GAAP financial measures; and
(iii) If the filing is not an annual report on Form 10-K or Form 20-F (17 CFR 249.220f), a registrant need not include the information required by paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(C) and (e)(1)(i)(D) of this section if that information was included in its most recent annual report on Form 10-K or Form 20-F or a more recent filing, provided that the required information is updated to the extent necessary to meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(C) and (e)(1)(i)(D) of this section at the time of the registrant's current filing.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (e), a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that:
(i) Excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of comprehensive income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or
(ii) Includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented.
(3) For purposes of this paragraph (e), GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, except that:
(i) In the case of foreign private issuers whose primary financial statements are prepared in accordance with non-U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, GAAP refers to the principles under which those primary financial statements are prepared; and
(ii) In the case of foreign private issuers that include a non-GAAP financial measure derived from or based on a measure calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, GAAP refers to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for purposes of the application of the requirements of this paragraph (e) to the disclosure of that measure.
(4) For purposes of this paragraph (e), non-GAAP financial measures exclude:
(i) Operating and other statistical measures; and
(ii) Ratios or statistical measures calculated using exclusively one or both of:
(A) Financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP; and
(B) Operating measures or other measures that are not non-GAAP financial measures.
(5) For purposes of this paragraph (e), non-GAAP financial measures exclude financial measures required to be disclosed by GAAP, Commission rules, or a system of regulation of a government or governmental authority or self-regulatory organization that is applicable to the registrant. However, the financial measure should be presented outside of the financial statements unless the financial measure is required or expressly permitted by the standard-setter that is responsible for establishing the GAAP used in such financial statements.
(6) The requirements of paragraph (e) of this section shall not apply to a non-GAAP financial measure included in disclosure relating to a proposed business combination, the entity resulting therefrom or an entity that is a party thereto, if the disclosure is contained in a communication that is subject to § 230.425 of this chapter, § 240.14a-12 or § 240.14d-2(b)(2) of this chapter or § 229.1015 of this chapter.
(7) The requirements of paragraph (e) of this section shall not apply to investment companies registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8).
Note to paragraph (e):
A non-GAAP financial measure that would otherwise be prohibited by paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section is permitted in a filing of a foreign private issuer if:
1. The non-GAAP financial measure relates to the GAAP used in the registrant's primary financial statements included in its filing with the Commission;
2. The non-GAAP financial measure is required or expressly permitted by the standard-setter that is responsible for establishing the GAAP used in such financial statements; and
3. The non-GAAP financial measure is included in the annual report prepared by the registrant for use in the jurisdiction in which it is domiciled, incorporated or organized or for distribution to its security holders.
(f) Smaller reporting companies. The requirements of this part apply to smaller reporting companies. A smaller reporting company may comply with either the requirements applicable to smaller reporting companies or the requirements applicable to other companies for each item, unless the requirements for smaller reporting companies specify that smaller reporting companies must comply with the smaller reporting company requirements. The following items of this part set forth requirements for smaller reporting companies that are different from requirements applicable to other companies:
Index of Scaled Disclosure Available to Smaller Reporting Companies
Item 101
Description of business.
Item 201
Market price of and dividends on registrant's common equity and related stockholder matters.
Item 302
Supplementary financial information.
Item 305
Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.
Item 402
Executive compensation.
Item 404
Transactions with related persons, promoters and certain control persons.
Item 407
Corporate governance.
Item 503
Prospectus summary.
Item 504
Use of proceeds.
Item 601
Exhibits.
(1) Definition of smaller reporting company. As used in this part, the term smaller reporting company means an issuer that is not an investment company, an asset-backed issuer (as defined in § 229.1101), or a majority-owned subsidiary of a parent that is not a smaller reporting company and that:
(i) Had a public float of less than $250 million; or
(ii) Had annual revenues of less than $100 million and either:
(A) No public float; or
(B) A public float of less than $700 million.
(2) Determination. Whether an issuer is a smaller reporting company is determined on an annual basis.
(i) For issuers that are required to file reports under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act:
(A) Public float is measured as of the last business day of the issuer's most recently completed second fiscal quarter and computed by multiplying the aggregate worldwide number of shares of its voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates by the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of common equity, in the principal market for the common equity;
(B) Annual revenues are as of the most recently completed fiscal year for which audited financial statements are available; and
(C) An issuer must reflect the determination of whether it came within the definition of smaller reporting company in its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first fiscal quarter of the next year, indicating on the cover page of that filing, and in subsequent filings for that fiscal year, whether it is a smaller reporting company, except that, if a determination based on public float indicates that the issuer is newly eligible to be a smaller reporting company, the issuer may choose to reflect this determination beginning with its first quarterly report on Form 10-Q following the determination, rather than waiting until the first fiscal quarter of the next year.
(ii) For determinations based on an initial registration statement under the Securities Act or Exchange Act for shares of its common equity:
(A) Public float is measured as of a date within 30 days of the date of the filing of the registration statement and computed by multiplying the aggregate worldwide number of shares of its voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates before the registration plus, in the case of a Securities Act registration statement, the number of shares of its voting and non-voting common equity included in the registration statement by the estimated public offering price of the shares;
(B) Annual revenues are as of the most recently completed fiscal year for which audited financial statements are available; and
(C) The issuer must reflect the determination of whether it came within the definition of smaller reporting company in the registration statement and must appropriately indicate on the cover page of the filing, and subsequent filings for the fiscal year in which the filing is made, whether it is a smaller reporting company. The issuer must re-determine its status at the end of its second fiscal quarter and then reflect any change in status as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(i)(C) of this section. In the case of a determination based on an initial Securities Act registration statement, an issuer that was not determined to be a smaller reporting company has the option to re-determine its status at the conclusion of the offering covered by the registration statement based on the actual offering price and number of shares sold.
(iii) Once an issuer determines that it does not qualify for smaller reporting company status because it exceeded one or more of the current thresholds, it will remain unqualified unless when making its annual determination either:
(A) It determines that its public float was less than $200 million; or
(B) It determines that its public float and its annual revenues meet the requirements for subsequent qualification included in the following chart:
Prior annual revenues
Prior public float
None or less than $700 million
$700 million or more
Less than $100 million
Neither threshold exceeded
Public float—Less than $560 million; and
Revenues—Less than $100 million.
$100 million or more
Public float—None or less than $700 million; and
Public float—Less than $560 million; and
Revenues—Less than $80 million
Revenues—Less than $80 million.
Instruction 1 to paragraph (f): A registrant that qualifies as a smaller reporting company under the public float thresholds identified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(2)(iii)(A) of this section will qualify as a smaller reporting company regardless of its revenues.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (f): A foreign private issuer is not eligible to use the requirements for smaller reporting companies unless it uses the forms and rules designated for domestic issuers and provides financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
(iv) Upon the consummation of a de-SPAC transaction, as defined in § 229.1601(a) (Item 1601(a) of Regulation S-K), an issuer must re-determine its status as a smaller reporting company pursuant to the thresholds set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section prior to its first filing, other than pursuant to Items 2.01(f), 5.01(a)(8), and/or 9.01(c) of Form 8-K, following the de-SPAC transaction and reflect this re-determination in its filings, beginning 45 days after consummation of the de-SPAC transaction.
(A) Public float is measured as of a date within four business days after the consummation of the de-SPAC transaction and is computed by multiplying the aggregate worldwide number of shares of its voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates as of that date by the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of common equity, in the principal market for the common equity; and
(B) Annual revenues are the annual revenues of the target company, as defined in § 229.1601(d) (Item 1601(d) of Regulation S-K), as of the most recently completed fiscal year reported in the Form 8-K filed pursuant to Items 2.01(f), 5.01(a)(8), and/or 9.01(c) of Form 8-K.
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 21260, June 5, 1987; 58 FR 14665, Mar. 18, 1993; 58 FR 62029, Nov. 23, 1993; 60 FR 32824, June 23, 1995; 64 FR 61443, Nov. 10, 1999; 68 FR 4831, Jan. 30, 2003; 70 FR 1593, Jan. 7, 2005; 73 FR 956, Jan. 4, 2008; 76 FR 46617, Aug. 3, 2011; 83 FR 32018, July 10, 2018; 83 FR 50209, Oct. 4, 2018; 84 FR 12716, Apr. 2, 2019; 85 FR 17241, Mar. 26, 2020; 86 FR 2126, Jan. 11, 2021; 89 FR 14315, Feb. 26, 2024]
Securities Act of 1933
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Investment Company Act of 1940
CFR Toolbox
Law about... Articles from Wex
Table of Popular Names
Parallel Table of Authorities
